OSDOCS-6743 (#65180)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy.adoc

                        "52.11.52.9/32",
                        "52.40.203.77/32",
                        "18.217.173.123/32",
                        "3.13.34.119/32",
                        "3.19.160.232/32",
                        "18.188.187.143/32",
                        "18.216.245.132/32",
                        "52.14.85.89/32",
                        "52.21.184.148/32",
                        "44.194.57.131/32",
                        "18.188.65.148/32",
                        "3.130.101.176/32",
                        "3.130.198.233/32",
                        "54.210.128.71/32",
                        "54.227.100.14/32",
                        "54.92.188.93/32",
                        "107.22.5.187/32",
                        "3.217.212.27/32",
                        "52.22.56.3/32",
                        "52.5.10.152/32",
                        "54.237.41.201/32",
                        "34.202.145.72/32",
                        "52.205.239.95/32",
                        "54.236.208.68/32",
                        "3.234.64.191/32",
                        "34.195.159.252/32",
                        "34.228.34.122/32",

>                         "54.205.89.242"    

Reviewer: This one is missing the /32. Sorry, I missed that in my earlier comment. The other three for the proxy IPs also appear to be missing from my other comments.
```
209.132.0.0/16
66.187.0.0/16
2620:0052:0004:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000/40
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa-adding-additional-constraints-for-ip-based-aws-role-assumption/rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy_{context}"]
= Create an Identity-based IAM policy

:context: rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy

toc::[]

> You can create an Identity-based Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy that denies access to all AWS actions when the request originates from an IP address other than Red Hat provided IPs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can create an identity-based Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy that denies access to all AWS actions when the request originates from an IP address other than Red Hat provided IPs.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You have access to the AWS Management Console with the permissions required to create and modify IAM policies.

Reviewer 2: Consider adding a link to the AWS Management Console in the prerequisites.

Author: Added a link to AWS Management Console. Please confirm.

.Procedure

. Sign in to the AWS Management Console using your AWS account credentials.
. Navigate to the IAM service.
. In the IAM console, select *Policies* from the left navigation menu.

> . Click *Create policy* to begin creating a new policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Create policy*.
```

> . In the Create policy page, select the *JSON* tab to define the policy using JSON format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select the *JSON* tab to define the policy using JSON format.
```
(If you want to keep the bit about the pages, I suggest changing "In" to "On" throughout the doc).

Author: Updated as, "Select the *JSON* tab to define the policy using JSON format."

                        "3.130.101.176/32",
                        "3.130.198.233/32",
                        "54.210.128.71/32",
                        "54.227.100.14/32",
                        "54.92.188.93/32",
                        "107.22.5.187/32",
                        "3.217.212.27/32",
                        "52.22.56.3/32",
                        "52.5.10.152/32",
                        "54.237.41.201/32",
                        "34.202.145.72/32",
                        "52.205.239.95/32",
                        "54.236.208.68/32",
                        "3.234.64.191/32",
                        "34.195.159.252/32",
                        "34.228.34.122/32",
                        "54.205.89.242/32",
                        "209.132.0.0/16",
                        "66.187.0.0/16",
                        "2620:0052:0004:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000/48"    
                    ]
                },
                "Bool": {
                    "aws:ViaAWSService": "false"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
----
+
[NOTE]
====
This list is subject to change. Additionally, you must specify the IP addresses in CIDR notation.  
====
+

> . In the Create policy page, click *Review and create*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click *Review and create*.
```
(Same note about "In" to "On" if you keep the initial text that restates what page the user is on.

> . In the Review and create page, provide a name and description for the policy, and review the details to ensure accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Provide a name and description for the policy, and review the details for accuracy.
```

. Click *Create policy* to save the policy.

[NOTE]
====

> The condition key `aws:ViaAWSService` must be set to false for enabling subsequent calls to succeed on behalf of the initial call. For example, if you were to make a call to `aws ec2 describe-instances`, any subsequent calls made within the AWS API server to retrieve information about the EBS volumes attached to the ec2 instance would fail if condition key `aws:ViaAWSService` is not set to false. This is because these subsequent calls would originate from AWS IP addresses, which are not included in the AllowList.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The condition key `aws:ViaAWSService` must be set to false to enable subsequent calls to succeed based on the initial call. For example, if you make an initial call to `aws ec2 describe-instances`, all subsequent calls made within the AWS API server to retrieve information about the EBS volumes attached to the ec2 instance will fail if the condition key `aws:ViaAWSService` is not set to false. The subsequent calls would fail because they would originate from AWS IP addresses, which are not included in the AllowList.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy_{context}"]
= Create an Identity-based IAM policy

:context: rosa-create-an-identity-based-policy

toc::[]

You can create an Identity-based Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy that denies access to all AWS actions when the request originates from an IP address other than Red Hat provided IPs.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the AWS Management Console with the permissions required to create and modify IAM policies.

.Procedure

. Sign in to the AWS Management Console using your AWS account credentials.
. Navigate to the IAM service.
. In the IAM console, select *Policies* from the left navigation menu.
. Click *Create policy* to begin creating a new policy.
. In the Create policy page, select the *JSON* tab to define the policy using JSON format.
. Copy and paste the following JSON policy document into the editor:
+
[source,json]
----
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Effect": "Deny",
            "Action": "*",
            "Resource": "*",
            "Condition": {
                "NotIpAddress": {
                    "aws:SourceIp": [

>                         "x.x.x.x/32",   /* Allowlisted IP 1 */

Reviewer: I would remove the `/* Allowlisted IP 1 */` part from this as it is not valid JSON and could confuse someone unfamiliar with IAM.

                        "y.y.y.y/32",   /* Allowlisted IP 2 */
                        "z.z.z.z/32"    /* Allowlisted IP 3 */
                    ],

>                 "Bool": {"aws:ViaAWSService": "false"}

Reviewer: Minor nit: the indentation here is just a little off.

                }
            }
            
        }

    ]
}
----
+

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Author: Can SME or @yuwang-RH help here? Thank you!

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Author: Considering the urgency of this Jira, would really appreciate if we get detailed information or comments if any for this PR. This will help us to incorporate the changes (if any) asap. Thank you!

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Reviewer: This would be a braod set to use for the use case where we access AWS from our workstations via a proxy:
```
209.132.0.0/16
66.187.0.0/16
2620:0052:0004:0000:0000:0000:0000:0000/40
```
Note, this does not include IPs used by our APIs or automation. I will try to find that now.

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Reviewer: These are all the egress IPs of current App SRE clusters where our APIs and automation reside. 
```
3.223.162.20/32
3.233.177.185/32
54.209.120.28/32
23.21.192.204/32
23.23.16.23/32
3.217.67.187/32
34.206.248.211/32
34.237.192.147/32
52.1.97.230/32
18.214.192.218/32
3.218.132.183/32
52.202.67.83/32
18.220.162.161/32
18.224.36.208/32
3.143.200.173/32
54.197.245.192/32
3.23.162.248/32
44.217.70.145/32
52.202.89.184/32
54.174.41.137/32
3.231.181.77/32
44.193.253.218/32
52.201.38.139/32
34.205.217.112/32
23.22.217.39/32
44.193.121.36/32
54.211.144.4/32
34.194.251.19/32
44.196.79.250/32
52.45.208.183/32
100.20.120.76/32
100.20.197.29/32
52.26.177.23/32
34.197.214.203/32
35.170.167.51/32
52.23.44.43/32
44.228.245.162/32
44.238.205.35/32
54.203.216.175/32
34.237.49.153/32
44.196.177.146/32
52.23.117.40/32
44.225.234.235/32
44.241.225.78/32
44.241.55.3/32
34.237.180.56/32
44.205.240.205/32
52.54.93.238/32
35.155.66.53/32
44.231.249.237/32
44.233.161.100/32
3.229.185.234/32
54.147.98.63/32
54.163.100.197/32
23.20.194.86/32
23.22.242.238/32
54.147.218.140/32
52.21.229.141/32
54.227.5.10/32
54.146.138.135/32
23.21.239.1/32
52.20.145.130/32
54.157.89.24/32
107.22.162.110/32
3.223.147.2/32
54.88.225.66/32
54.177.143.128/32
54.219.250.189/32
18.135.14.84/32
18.135.218.119/32
3.11.51.55/32
3.233.86.181/32
34.226.229.129/32
44.194.44.138/32
34.216.5.118/32
52.11.52.9/32
52.40.203.77/32
18.217.173.123/32
3.13.34.119/32
3.19.160.232/32
18.188.187.143/32
18.216.245.132/32
52.14.85.89/32
52.21.184.148/32
44.194.57.131/32
18.188.65.148/32
3.130.101.176/32
3.130.198.233/32
54.210.128.71/32
54.227.100.14/32
54.92.188.93/32
107.22.5.187/32
3.217.212.27/32
52.22.56.3/32
52.5.10.152/32
54.237.41.201/32
34.202.145.72/32
52.205.239.95/32
54.236.208.68/32
3.234.64.191/32
34.195.159.252/32
34.228.34.122/32
54.205.89.242
```

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Reviewer: We should note this list is subject to change.

> . Replace the x.x.x.x/32, y.y.y.y/32, and z.z.z.z/32 placeholders with the actual IP addresses you want to allow.

Author: Added the IPs as mentioned above starting from, 
3.223.162.20/32
3.233.177.185/32
.
.
.
54.205.89.242

Also, added sentence in Note that, "This list is subject to change".

+
[NOTE]
====
You must specify the IP addresses in CIDR notation.
====
+

> . Click *Review policy*.

Reviewer 3: The AWS console UI is changed, there is no 'Review policy' element on the step 'Review and create' on the 'Create policy' page
